# Topic Modeling on abstracts of research related to the PHASES project

This project is a Python application that performs topic modeling on abstracts of research articles related to specific topics, "gerotranscendence", "solitude" and "healthy aging" retrieves their abstracts and titles from PubMed, and saves them to a local directory. 

## Features

- Retrieves articles from PubMed.
- Searches PubMed for articles related to the specified keywords - gerotranscendence, solitude, healthy aging.
- The number of articles retrieved per keyword is adjustable.
- Performs Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) topic modeling on the retrieved abstracts.
- Identifies the main topics across the abstracts and sorts them by relevance.
- Downloads and saves the abstracts to a user-defined directory.
    
## Installation

To get started with the **Topic Modeling on abstracts of research articles related to PHASES project**, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/phases_abstracts_topic_modeling.git
    ```

2. Navigate into the repository folder:

    ```bash
    cd phases_abstracts_topic_modeling
    ```

3. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Requirements

Before running the application, ensure that the following dependencies are installed:

- Python 3.x
    - `requests`
    - `python-dotenv`
    - `gensim`
    - `click`
    - `nltk`

## Usage

Once the installation is complete, the project can be used by following the instructions. Below are the steps to run the application:

1. Set up your `.env` file:

    Create a `.env` file in the root of the project directory and add the environment variables for the API key for PubMed and the directory path for saving abstracts.

2. **Run the application**:

    After installing the dependencies, you can run the script by executing the following command:

    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```

3. **Configuration**:

    The number of articles retrieved for each keyword can be adjusted by modifying the script. Currently, it retrieves a fixed number of articles, but this can be customized by altering the `retmax` parameter in the code. The number of topics generated by LDA can alos be adjusted by modifying the `num_topics` parameter.


## Contributing

To track changes made to this project, it is best maintained by following these steps:

1. Submit an issue detailing the problem.
2. Create a branch to address this issue that uses the same number as the issue tracker. For example, if the issue is `#50` in the issue tracker, name the branch `issue-50`. This allows other developers to easily know which branch needs to be checked out to contribute.
3. Create a pull request that fixes the issue. If possible, create a draft (or WIP) branch early in the process.
4. Merge pull request once all the necessary changes have been made. If needed, tag other developers to review the pull request.
5. Delete the issue branch (e.g., branch `issue-50`).







 
